Add third-party libraries page (#35)
U8NWXD/oppia-wiki: Third-party-libraries.md

## Table of contents

* [Introduction](#introduction)

> * [Unmanaged development dependencies](#unmanaged-development-dependencies)

Author: No, I don't think we do. @vojtechjelinek if you can tell me what procedure people should follow to add or upgrade third-party libs, I can add it to this page

> * [Unmanaged development dependencies](#unmanaged-development-dependencies)

Author: vojtechjelinek told me offline how to do this. I've updated the page

* [Managed dependencies](#managed-dependencies)
  * [`start.py`](#startpy)
  * [`install_third_party_libs.py`](#install_third_party_libspy)
    * [Python packages](#python-packages)
    * [Node modules](#node-modules)
    * [Protobuf](#protobuf)
  * [`install_third_party.py`](#install_third_partypy)
    * [Manifest files](#manifest-files)
    * [Redis and Elasticsearch](#redis-and-elasticsearch)
  * [`install_backend_python_libs.py`](#install_backend_python_libspy)

## Introduction

At Oppia we have a lot of dependencies, and we have many different ways of managing them. Some of these dependencies are required for our production application, while others are only used for development. Below, we will discuss how all these dependencies are managed.

## Unmanaged development dependencies

Oppia has some development dependencies that the user has to manage themselves. These are:

* Python 3.7
* Google Chrome
* git
* Tools commonly found on Linux and MacOS systems like bash

> In our setup instructions, we walk developers through installing these.

Reviewer: Link to the instructions?

Author: done

               | main() calls install_backend_python_libs.main()
               v
+--------------------------------+
| install_backend_python_libs.py |
+--------------------------------+
```

We'll look at each of these scripts below.

### `start.py`

When you start a development server, you execute `scripts/start.py`. This file does not itself install any dependencies, but it contains a call to `install_third_party_libs.main()` that will be executed whenever `start.py` is executed, or even imported.

### `install_third_party_libs.py`

#### Python packages

Whenever `install_third_party_libs.py` is executed or imported, it installs some Python packages that are needed early by the installation process. Some are installed to `oppia_tools/`, and other are installed to `third_party/python_libs/`.

When `install_third_party_libs.main()` runs, it installs additional Python packages:

* Packages that need to be available on the system `PATH` are installed "globally" using pip (in practice these are installed into your virtual environment).
* Other packages are installed to `oppia_tools/`.

All of these Python packages are listed directly in the `install_third_party_libs.py` file.

> For all the Python packages installed by this script, the version of the package is pinned (i.e. we always install the same version, even if a newer version is available). However, the dependencies of that package may not have pinned versions. For example, we depend on `pip-tools`, which in turn depends on `pip`. The `setup.py` in `pip-tools` does not specify a particular version of `pip` that it requires, so when we install `pip-tools`, we will install the latest version of `pip`. This can lead to test failures when a breaking change in `pip` is released.

Reviewer: Hm ... we should fix this?

More generally, should we try to pin all the things?

Author: Yes, we should pin everything. @vojtechjelinek is working on this as part of moving our Python libs to a virtual environment

  * `targetDirPrefix`: The prefix of the base name to which the expanded file or folder should be renamed. The prefix concatenated with the version string should produce the full base name.

* Collections of files. The following keys are required in the object describing this dependency:

  * `version`: The dependency's version string.
  * `url`: The prefix of the URL to the files.
  * `downloadFormat`: Must be set to `files`.
  * `files`: List of the files to download. Each file will be downloaded from the URL formed by joining `url` with the item in `files`, using a slash (`/`) as a delimiter. Files are not renamed after they are downloaded.
  * `targetDirPrefix`: A string which, when suffixed with `version`, yields the base name of the folder to which each file will be downloaded.

* Tar archives of files. These work just like zip archives, except that there are no optional keys. Instead of the `rootDir`, `rootDirPrefix`, `targetDir`, and `targetDirPrefix` keys, these two keys are required:

  * `tarRootDirPrefix`: Same as `rootDirPrefix` for zip files.
  * `targetDirPrefix`: Same as `targetDirPrefix` for zip files.

> New dependencies should not be added to `manifest.json`, as this method of installing dependencies is deprecated.

Reviewer: Perhaps explain what replaces it, and the procedure the developers should follow when adding a new third-party lib (which includes getting approval from @vojtechjelinek and me, I think).

Author: I've added an explanation of what replaces it. I'll include the approval process in the section on how to add third-party libs

#### Redis and Elasticsearch

> We download and install the Redis CLI and Elasticsearch development server. We pin the versions of these dependencies that we install, but we don't automatically upgrade old versions. Specifically, we try to execute the Redis and Elasticsearch binaries. If the binaries execute successfully, then we don't install anything.

Reviewer: Do you think we should change this to ensure that the version being executed is the version that is pinned?

Author: Ideally yes, but since there haven't been any issues due to this failure to auto-upgrade, I don't think it's high priority. I've opened oppia/oppia#13911 to let @DubeySandeep triage

## Table of contents

* [Introduction](#introduction)
* [Unmanaged development dependencies](#unmanaged-development-dependencies)
* [Managed dependencies](#managed-dependencies)
  * [`start.py`](#startpy)
  * [`install_third_party_libs.py`](#install_third_party_libspy)
    * [Python packages](#python-packages)
    * [Node modules](#node-modules)
    * [Protobuf](#protobuf)
  * [`install_third_party.py`](#install_third_partypy)
    * [Manifest files](#manifest-files)
    * [Redis and Elasticsearch](#redis-and-elasticsearch)
  * [`install_backend_python_libs.py`](#install_backend_python_libspy)

## Introduction

> At Oppia we have a lot of dependencies, and we have many different ways of managing those dependencies. Some of these dependencies are required for our production application, while other are only used for development. Below, we will discuss how all these dependencies are managed.

Author: ```suggestion
At Oppia we have a lot of dependencies, and we have many different ways of managing them. Some of these dependencies are required for our production application, while others are only used for development. Below, we will discuss how all these dependencies are managed.
```

## Unmanaged development dependencies

Oppia has some development dependencies that the user has to manage themselves. These are:

* Python 3.7
* Google Chrome
* git
* Tools commonly found on Linux and MacOS systems like bash

In our setup instructions, we walk developers through installing these.

## Managed dependencies

The rest of Oppia's development and production dependencies are managed by the Oppia code. These dependencies are installed to the following places:

> * `oppia_tools/` stores development tools that aren't used in production.

Author: Add that this is a sibling to the repository root

* `third_party/python_libs` stores our production Python dependencies.

> * `third_party/static` stores some of our production node dependencies.

Author: Here and elsewhere, node -> Node.js

* `node_modules` stores more production node dependencies. On developer machines, it also stores development dependencies.
* `third_party/` also stores some other production dependencies like protobuf files.

When you run `python -m scripts.start`, a chain of scripts installs and/or upgrades dependencies as necessary:

```text
          +----------+
          | start.py |
          +----------+
               |

>                | calls install_third_party_libs.main() on execute or import

Author: make clearer?

               v
  +-----------------------------+
  | install_third_party_libs.py |
  +-----------------------------+
               |
               | main() calls install_third_party.main()
               v
    +------------------------+
    | install_third_party.py |
    +------------------------+
               |
               | main() calls install_backend_python_libs.main()
               v
+--------------------------------+
| install_backend_python_libs.py |
+--------------------------------+
```

> We'll look at each of these files below.

Author: ```suggestion
We'll look at each of these scripts below.
```

### `start.py`

When you start a development server, you execute `scripts/start.py`. This file does not itself install any dependencies, but it contains a call to `install_third_party_libs.main()` that will be executed whenever `start.py` is executed, or even imported.

### `install_third_party_libs.py`

#### Python packages

Whenever `install_third_party_libs.py` is executed or imported, it installs the following Python packages:

* pyyaml: Installed to `oppia_tools/`
* future: Installed to `third_party/python_libs`
* six: Installed to `third_party/python_libs`
* certifi: Installed to `oppia_tools/`

When `install_third_party_libs.main()` runs, it installs the following additional Python packages:

> * Installed system-wide (practically this means inside the virtual environment):

Author: ```suggestion
* Installed "globally" using pip (in practice these are installed into your virtual environment):
```

  * enum34
  * protobuf
  * grpcio

* Installed to `oppia_tools/`:

  * coverage
  * pylint
  * Pillow
  * pylint-quotes
  * webtest
  * isort
  * pycodestyle
  * esprima
  * PyGithub
  * protobuf
  * psutil
  * pip-tools

>   * setuptools

Author: Note that these are defined in the code file

For all the Python packages installed so far, the version of the package is pinned (i.e. we always install the same version, even if a newer version is available). However, the dependencies of that package may not have pinned versions. For example, we depend on `pip-tools`, which in turn depends on `pip`. The `setup.py` in `pip-tools` does not specify a particular version of `pip` that it requires, so when we install `pip-tools`, we will install the latest version of `pip`. This can lead to test failures when a breaking change in `pip` is released.

#### Node modules

> This is also where we install the frontend dependencies from `package.json` using `yarn`. The versions of all these node modules are pinned by `yarn.lock`, and they get installed to `node_modules/`.

Author: ```suggestion
This script also installs the frontend dependencies from `package.json` using `yarn`. The versions of all these node modules are pinned by `yarn.lock`, and they get installed to `node_modules/`.
```

#### Protobuf

> We also install the protoc and buf tools for protobuf (these versions are pinned). By this point we've already called `install_third_party.main()`, so we have downloaded the proto files. We use buf to generate code from those proto files (i.e. compile the proto files).

Author: ```suggestion
We also install the protoc and buf tools for protobuf (these versions are pinned). By the time we install those tools we've already called `install_third_party.main()`, so we have downloaded the proto files. We use buf to generate code from those proto files (i.e. compile the proto files).
```

### `install_third_party.py`

#### Manifest files

We use a `manifest.json` file to specify other dependencies that we have but which aren't Python packages or node modules. This file has a `dependencies` key, under which it has the following keys:

* `proto`: Files here are installed to `third_party/`
* `frontend`: Files here are installed to `third_party/static/`
* `oppiaTools`: Files here are installed to `oppia_tools/`

Under each of these keys is a collection of key-value pairs where each key is a dependency name and each value is an object describing how to download and install the dependency. We support three types of dependencies:

> * Zip archives of files. The zip archive must expand to a single file or folder. The following keys are required:

Author: ```suggestion
* Zip archives of files. The zip archive must expand to a single file or folder. The following keys are required in the object describing this dependency:
```

ditto elsewhere

  * `version`: The dependency's version string.
  * `url`: The full URL to the zip archive.
  * `downloadFormat`: Must be set to `zip`.

  The object must specify one of the following keys:

  * `rootDir`: The base name of the expanded file or folder.
  * `rootDirPrefix`: The prefix of the base name of the expanded file or folder. The prefix concatenated with the version string should produce the full base name.

  The object must also specify one of the following keys:

  * `targetDir`: The base name to which the expanded file or folder should be renamed.
  * `targetDirPrefix`: The prefix of the base name to which the expanded file or folder should be renamed. The prefix concatenated with the version string should produce the full base name.

* Collections of files. The following keys are required:

  * `version`: The dependency's version string.
  * `url`: The prefix of the URL to the files.
  * `downloadFormat`: Must be set to `files`.

>   * `files`: List of the files to download. Each file will be downloaded from the URL formed by joining `url` with the item in `files`, using a slash (`/`) as a delimiter. Files are not renamed after being downloaded.

Author: ```suggestion
  * `files`: List of the files to download. Each file will be downloaded from the URL formed by joining `url` with the item in `files`, using a slash (`/`) as a delimiter. Files are not renamed after they are downloaded.
```

  * `targetDirPrefix`: A string which, when suffixed with `version`, yields the base name of the folder to which each file will be downloaded.

> * Tar archives of files. These work just like zip archives, except that there are no optional keys. Instead, these two keys are required:

Author: unclear

  * `tarRootDirPrefix`: Same as `rootDirPrefix` for zip files.
  * `targetDirPrefix`: Same as `targetDirPrefix` for zip files.

#### Redis and Elasticsearch

> We download and install the Redis CLI and Elasticsearch development server. We pin the versions of these dependencies that we install, but we don't automatically upgrade versions older than the version we would install. Specifically, we try to execute the Redis and Elasticsearch binaries. If the binaries execute successfully, then we don't install anything.

Author: ```suggestion
We download and install the Redis CLI and Elasticsearch development server. We pin the versions of these dependencies that we install, but we don't automatically upgrade old versions. Specifically, we try to execute the Redis and Elasticsearch binaries. If the binaries execute successfully, then we don't install anything.
```

### `install_backend_python_libs.py`

> This script installs the Python dependencies we need in production to `third_party/python_libs`. We define these dependencies using `requirements.in`, which lists the libraries we depend on directly. Then, `install_backend_python_libs.py` runs `scripts.regenerate_requirements` to generate `requirements.txt`, which lists those direct dependencies, plus all the packages that our direct dependencies need, and so on. Both `requirements.in` and `requirements.txt` specify versions, so `requirements.txt` is analogous to `yarn.lock` in that it pins all the versions of all the Python packages we use in production.

Author: ```suggestion
This script installs the Python dependencies we need in production to `third_party/python_libs`. We define these dependencies using `requirements.in`, which lists the libraries we depend on directly. Then `install_backend_python_libs.py` runs `scripts.regenerate_requirements` to generate `requirements.txt`, which lists those direct dependencies, plus all the packages that our direct dependencies need, and so on. Both `requirements.in` and `requirements.txt` specify versions, so `requirements.txt` is analogous to `yarn.lock` in that it pins all the versions of all the Python packages we use in production.
```

               v
  +-----------------------------+
  | install_third_party_libs.py |
  +-----------------------------+
               |
               | main() calls install_third_party.main()
               v
    +------------------------+
    | install_third_party.py |
    +------------------------+
               |
               | main() calls install_backend_python_libs.main()
               v
+--------------------------------+
| install_backend_python_libs.py |
+--------------------------------+
```

We'll look at each of these scripts below.

### `start.py`

When you start a development server, you execute `scripts/start.py`. This file does not itself install any dependencies, but it contains a call to `install_third_party_libs.main()` that will be executed whenever `start.py` is executed, or even imported.

### `install_third_party_libs.py`

#### Python packages

Whenever `install_third_party_libs.py` is executed or imported, it installs the following Python packages:

* pyyaml: Installed to `oppia_tools/`
* future: Installed to `third_party/python_libs`
* six: Installed to `third_party/python_libs`

> * certifi: Installed to `oppia_tools/`

Reviewer 2: Should we mention the specific libs? Or just this category of libs? Here it would be something like "libs that need to be installed early".

Author: done

When `install_third_party_libs.main()` runs, it installs the following additional Python packages:

* Installed "globally" using pip (in practice these are installed into your virtual environment):

  * enum34
  * protobuf
  * grpcio

* Installed to `oppia_tools/`:

  * coverage
  * pylint
  * Pillow
  * pylint-quotes
  * webtest
  * isort
  * pycodestyle
  * esprima
  * PyGithub
  * protobuf
  * psutil
  * pip-tools

>   * setuptools

Reviewer 2: ditto, I wouldn't list these since they can be outdated pretty quickly.

Author: done

For all the Python packages installed by this script, the version of the package is pinned (i.e. we always install the same version, even if a newer version is available). However, the dependencies of that package may not have pinned versions. For example, we depend on `pip-tools`, which in turn depends on `pip`. The `setup.py` in `pip-tools` does not specify a particular version of `pip` that it requires, so when we install `pip-tools`, we will install the latest version of `pip`. This can lead to test failures when a breaking change in `pip` is released.

#### Node modules

This script installs the frontend dependencies from `package.json` using `yarn`. The versions of all these Node.js modules are pinned by `yarn.lock`, and they get installed to `node_modules/`.

#### Protobuf

We also install the protoc and buf tools for protobuf (these versions are pinned). By the time we install those tools, we've already called `install_third_party.main()`, so we have downloaded the proto files. We use buf to generate code from those proto files (i.e. compile the proto files).

### `install_third_party.py`

#### Manifest files

> We use a `manifest.json` file to specify other dependencies that we have but which aren't Python packages or Node.js modules. This file has a `dependencies` key, under which it has the following keys:

Reviewer 2: Should we explain that this approach is deprecated?

## Introduction

At Oppia we have a lot of dependencies, and we have many different ways of managing them. Some of these dependencies are required for our production application, while others are only used for development. Below, we will discuss how all these dependencies are managed.

## Unmanaged development dependencies

Oppia has some development dependencies that the user has to manage themselves. These are:

* Python 3.7
* Google Chrome
* git
* Tools commonly found on Linux and MacOS systems like bash

In our [[setup instructions|Installing-Oppia]], we walk developers through installing these.

## Managed dependencies

The rest of Oppia's development and production dependencies are managed by the Oppia code. These dependencies are installed to the following places:

* `oppia_tools/` stores development tools that aren't used in production. This folder is a sibling of the repository root (`oppia/`), so if you are in the root of the repository, this folder is at `../oppia_tools/`. However, we'll use `oppia_tools/` here for simplicity.
* `third_party/python_libs` stores our production Python dependencies.

> * `third_party/static` stores some of our production Node.js dependencies.

Reviewer: Should have a clearer statement of the difference between third_party/static and node_modules.

Is it the case that the former is deployed directly whereas the latter is not? (Might need to check with @vojtechjelinek.)

Reviewer 2: static is compiled into one file by us, for node_modules it is done by webpack

Author: done

  * `targetDirPrefix`: The prefix of the base name to which the expanded file or folder should be renamed. The prefix concatenated with the version string should produce the full base name.

* Collections of files. The following keys are required in the object describing this dependency:

  * `version`: The dependency's version string.
  * `url`: The prefix of the URL to the files.
  * `downloadFormat`: Must be set to `files`.
  * `files`: List of the files to download. Each file will be downloaded from the URL formed by joining `url` with the item in `files`, using a slash (`/`) as a delimiter. Files are not renamed after they are downloaded.
  * `targetDirPrefix`: A string which, when suffixed with `version`, yields the base name of the folder to which each file will be downloaded.

* Tar archives of files. These work just like zip archives, except that there are no optional keys. Instead of the `rootDir`, `rootDirPrefix`, `targetDir`, and `targetDirPrefix` keys, these two keys are required:

  * `tarRootDirPrefix`: Same as `rootDirPrefix` for zip files.
  * `targetDirPrefix`: Same as `targetDirPrefix` for zip files.

> New dependencies should not be added to `manifest.json`, as this method of installing dependencies is deprecated. Instead, you should use the [node modules](#node-modules) method.

Reviewer: If it's actually deprecated, it shouldn't exist and we shouldn't be relying on it. Is there a plan for removing it? /cc @vojtechjelinek

Reviewer 2: It is not possible to remove it until we have finished the Angular migration.

### `install_backend_python_libs.py`

This script installs the Python dependencies we need in production to `third_party/python_libs`. We define these dependencies using `requirements.in`, which lists the libraries we depend on directly. Then `install_backend_python_libs.py` runs `scripts.regenerate_requirements` to generate `requirements.txt`, which lists those direct dependencies, plus all the packages that our direct dependencies need, and so on. Both `requirements.in` and `requirements.txt` specify versions, so `requirements.txt` is analogous to `yarn.lock` in that it pins all the versions of all the Python packages we use in production.

## Upgrade dependencies

### Upgrade backend libraries

Before upgrading any backend dependencies, you should check for any breaking changes between the currently installed version and the new version you want to upgrade the library to. You should:

* Check the library's changelog for breaking changes.

> * Test that after you install the upgraded version (see below), everything works correctly.

Reviewer: Probably should add comma before 'after' since the "after ... (see below)" part is a secondary clause. Or put "everything works correctly" before "after".

Maybe also add **This is very important.** after this sentence.

Author: done

> Note that we don't have an automatic way to detect outdated backend dependencies, so to upgrade all outdated backend dependencies, you have to check each version manually.

Reviewer: I think it would help to explain the actual steps involved in "check each version manually".

(Also, do you mean "check each library manually"? I think that would be clearer.)

Author: done

#### Upgrade production, backend libraries installed using pip

> A production library installed using pip can be upgraded as follows:

Reviewer: How do I, as a developer, know whether a library is (a) installed using pip, (b) a production or development library?

Author: All production libraries are installed using pip, so I've updated the heading to avoid mentioning pip. I also added a note that production libraries are listed in `requirements.in` for readers who didn't read through the earlier parts of the page

* The `local_pip_dependencies` variable.
* The `system_pip_dependencies` variable.

Note that for some of these locations, a constant from `scripts/common.py` may be used to specify the version.

Backend libraries that are not installed using pip also have their versions specified in `install_third_party_libs.py`, but they use custom code for each library. You should read the code to find the section for your library.

### Upgrade frontend libraries

#### Upgrade frontend libraries installed from npm

You can update all frontend libraries that we install from npm as follows. Note that `<yarn version>` specifies the currently-installed version of yarn (there should only be one version in `oppia_tools`). Also, all commands should be run from the repository root.

1. Run `../oppia_tools/yarn-<yarn version>/bin/yarn upgrade` to upgrade libraries that should not have any breaking changes.
2. Run `../oppia_tools/yarn-<yarn version>/bin/yarn outdated` to show outdated libraries whose newer versions might have breaking changes.
3. Check for breaking changes in the outdated libraries from the previous step. You should:

   * Check the library's changelog for breaking changes.

>    * Test that after you install the upgraded version (see below), everything works correctly.

Reviewer: Same notes as above.

Author: done

4. Manually update the versions in `package.json` for all packages you decide to upgrade.
5. Run `../oppia_tools/yarn-<yarn version>/bin/yarn install`

#### Upgrade frontend libraries not installed from npm

Other frontend libraries are specified in `manifest.json`. You can upgrade these libraries as follows:

1. Check for breaking changes in the libraries you want to upgrade. You should:

   * Check the library's changelog for breaking changes.
   * Test that after you install the upgraded version (see below), everything works correctly.

2. Change the version in `manifest.json` to the new version you want to install.

> Note that we don't have an automatic way to detect outdated libraries in `manifest.json`, so to upgrade all such libraries, you have to check each version manually.

Reviewer: Ditto as above.

Author: done

## Add dependencies

Note that all dependencies must be compatible with our Apache 2 license. All additions must also be approved by @vojtechjelinek.

### Add a backend library

Note that if a library is needed both for development and in production, then it should be added according to both of the following sets of instructions.

#### Add a backend, production library from pip

Here's how to add a backend, production library that can be installed from pip:

1. Add the library to `requirements.in` in the form `<package-name>==<version>`.
2. Generate `requirements.txt` from `requirements.in` by running `scripts/regenerate_requirements.py`.

#### Add a backend, development library from pip

> To add a backend, development library that can be installed from pip, first ask whether the library is needed before running or importing any script. If the answer is yes, add it to the `PREREQUISITES` constant in `scripts/install_third_party_libs.py`. Otherwise, add it to the `local_pip_dependencies` variable in `scripts/install_third_party_libs.py`.

Reviewer: ask --> figure out

How does one figure this out? Maybe elaborate on that a bit.

Author: done

#### Add a library not installable from pip

If a library cannot be installed from pip, you'll have to add custom code to `scripts/install_third_party_libs.py` to handle installation.

### Add a frontend library

#### Add a frontend library from npm

If the library is available from npm, you can install it like this:

1. Add it to `package.json`. If the dependency is needed in production, add it under `"dependencies"`. Otherwise, add it under `"devDependencies"`. If a dependency is needed in both production and for development, only add it under `"dependencies"`.
2. Run `../oppia_tools/yarn-<yarn version>/bin/yarn install` from the repository root. Note that `<yarn version>` specifies the version of yarn.

#### Add a frontend library from outside npm

> If your library is not available from npm, you can add it to `manifest.json`.

Reviewer: This conflicts with "manifest.json is deprecated" above.

Author: I think the word "deprecated" was confusing, so I removed it. By "deprecated" I meant that we (Oppia) wanted to move away from this method of installing packages. `manifest.json` is our own creation, so we're the ones "deprecating" it. However, I'm leaving open the possibility that we might need a frontend dependency that's not from npm, in which case we'll have to keep `manifest.json` around. To reflect that possibility, I've made the "don't use manifest.json" guidance a little weaker

### `install_backend_python_libs.py`

This script installs the Python dependencies we need in production to `third_party/python_libs`. We define these dependencies using `requirements.in`, which lists the libraries we depend on directly. Then `install_backend_python_libs.py` runs `scripts.regenerate_requirements` to generate `requirements.txt`, which lists those direct dependencies, plus all the packages that our direct dependencies need, and so on. Both `requirements.in` and `requirements.txt` specify versions, so `requirements.txt` is analogous to `yarn.lock` in that it pins all the versions of all the Python packages we use in production.

## Upgrade dependencies

### Upgrade backend libraries

Before upgrading any backend dependencies, you should check for any breaking changes between the currently installed version and the new version you want to upgrade the library to. You should:

> * Check the library's changelog for breaking changes.

Reviewer 2: It seems to me that you mention checking of breaking changes twice.

Author: The first time is in the section for backend tests. The second time is in the section for frontend tests in `manifest.json`. I did this because there's a separate procedure for npm libraries

Reviewer 2: No, I mean here `you should check for any breaking changes between the currently installed version and the new version you want to upgrade the library to` and then `Check the library's changelog for breaking changes.` seems a bit redundant to me.

Author: Oh, I understand now. The bullet points are explaining how to check for breaking changes. I want developers to check for breaking changes two ways:

1. Read the library's changelog
2. After upgrading the library, test that nothing broke

Does that make sense? The first of the phrases you mention is me saying that you need to check for breaking changes. The second is listing one of the ways to perform that check.

Reviewer 2: Ah, okay, makes sense.

2. Run `scripts/regenerate_requirements.py` to update `requirements.txt` based on the new `requirements.in`.

#### Upgrade development, backend libraries

A development library installed using pip can be upgraded by changing the version specified in our `scripts/install_third_party_libs.py` script. Versions are specified in one of the following places:

* The `PREREQUISITES` constant.
* The `local_pip_dependencies` variable.
* The `system_pip_dependencies` variable.

Note that for some of these locations, a constant from `scripts/common.py` may be used to specify the version.

Backend libraries that are not installed using pip also have their versions specified in `install_third_party_libs.py`, but they use custom code for each library. You should read the code to find the section for your library.

### Upgrade frontend libraries

#### Upgrade frontend libraries installed from npm

You can update all frontend libraries that we install from npm as follows. Note that `<yarn version>` specifies the currently-installed version of yarn (there should only be one version in `oppia_tools`). Also, all commands should be run from the repository root.

> 1. Run `../oppia_tools/yarn-<yarn version>/bin/yarn upgrade`

Reviewer 2: This upgrades libraries that should not have breaking changes (it works quite reliably) the second step then shows only libraries that might contain breaking changes. Probably worth mentioning here.

Author: done
